So where we left off was when a user would
enter zero characters into
the text area and click rent.
We would see this for
this post 400 bad request to /API/grants.
So Chrome has nicely showed it to us into
the console, but we can also see this and
all kinds of other information about
what kind of things we communicate with.
In the network panel, the network.
The network panel is really valuable and
you can a lot from what goes on it.
One of the things that I almost
always have on in the network panel
is this filter option.
The filter option lets you do
a bunch of things, one, it lets you
only show certain kinds of requests,
generally when you're debugging you're
trying to figure something out, you don't
care about every request that it made.
You only care about maybe what what Ajax
requests were fired or what JavaScript
files got pulled down, or what images got
pulled, or maybe what media got loaded.
This allows you to quickly
make those kinds of searches.
And even within that, the filter text
box allows you to quickly find like,
what's going on.
So in this case, I can say I was looking
for a call to slash API slash rants.
And as I start typing that in,
I can see my list quickly get
filtered down to what's going on.
I can also change a bunch of
things with how the network
acts directly from the network panel.
Like console,
it's got a preserve log option so
that you don't lose all
the network requests.
If there was a page, reload.
It's also got a disable cache,
which does have a performance impact.
But there was a good question about
this in chat while we were on break is,
oftentimes your browser is
gonna aggressively try and
not make requests when it doesn't have to.
It's gonna try and use a version
that it already has of a file.
You can turn on disable cache to tell
the browser to stop doing that and
always make the requests.
Always go get the freshest
version of the file,
which during development time
is really helpful to have.
There's lots of other tools, we'll cover
this a little bit more in a little while.
But now that we've kind
of filtered our list down
to see the files are the request
that has been made.
We can see that 400 requests
directly in this list.
So I can click on it and I can see a bunch
of information about what they requested.
I can see that this was
a post against this URL.
It came back with a 400 bad request.
And I can see all kinds of
things about that request.
I can see what were the headers that
we came back from the server with,
what were the requests or the headers
that we requested the server with.
And what did we send up?
So in this case, we sent up a JSON
object with text and empty string, which
kind of makes sense considering that we
didn't add any characters to our textbox.
The server comes back with a response,
this is a helpful server.
It actually tells us what
our error message is.
A lot of servers are not so helpful and
may not tell you what an error messages
The server said 400,
you made a bad request.
And the bad request description is
the text property must not be empty.
So the server has a rule that
you cannot post an empty rant.
But our client doesn't have that rule and
just go ahead and let us do it.
So maybe we should prevent ourselves from
making silly requests that the server
won't be able to accept anyway.
So we can use the network panel again
as an entry point into our code and
understand where in our code is
actually making this request.
The initiator column.
When you hover over it will actually give
you a full stack trace of what the code
that was executing did.
What the code that was executing
to cause this request to be made?
I have to kind of shrink this down
because there's a lot of things in this
stack trace.
But I can see there's a number of things
that are grayed out here because we black
box them away because it's just wrapper
code, things like tracker and jQuery.
We probably could have also blackbox
backbone js, which is another piece of
framework, but this is the first
time we've interacted with it.
If we keep pushing all the way back, we
see that the first piece of code that is
ours that we recognize is
this addRantView.js line 27.
So we can click in right from here and
see what was the last line of
our code that executed the cause
this network request to be made.
And if this call here,
this dot collection, dot create.
That must be the call into our framework
to actually initiate that network request.
So we need to add,
some validation around this maybe.
So, all of these lines here
are dealing with the idea that,
hey, something interesting
is about to happen.
So we should wrap that
up with a check here.
So maybe before we'll say if
we have a rant with text in it,
then do it.
And we can take advantage of that truthy
false Enos thing that we talked about with
the last bug where an empty string
will get evaluated to false see, but
any truthy will go on through.
Although maybe for safety sake, we should
do both things if there is text, and
the type of Brant text is a string,
just in case for some weird reason,
random text could be 42.
So with that condition in place,
we can take all of those lines
they're doing this action and drop them in
that conditional tab everything up nice.
And so now we've added a very naive set
of client side validation rules is
that we will not post this form up,
Unless RANT.txt is a truthy value,
that is also a string.
So let's go ahead and reload the page and
see if it still happens.
So I enter zero characters
into the field and hit RANT.
Nothing's happening.
We're not making the requests, right?
Cuz we fall out of that conditional.
But that's not really great
user experience, right?
The users clicking this button and
like nothing's happening.
We're not giving them any feedback.
Well, we should probably talk
about like a user experience and
maybe change the box tread and show a
validation message and that sort of thing.
But, for most modern browsers,
we could get that for free.
We could just add the validation
rules directly to the markup and
handle this before we even
get to the JavaScript later.
If we take a look here at this text area,
text area is one
of the fields that supports the required
attribute that was introduced in html5 and
it's very well supported.
For so there's not really a good
way to just manipulate this inline.
So I'm actually gonna punch out
to my editor to make this change.
I'm gonna take a look at index.html
inside of my text editor atom.
I'm gonna find our text area itself here.
And inside of the text area attribute
I'm just gonna add required.
Required is one of a handful
attributes that was introduced.
That allow you to add simple
validation rules in your forms
to be executed by the browser itself.
You don't need to worry about
adding complex validation rules and
messaging yourself unless you have to.
So I'm gonna save that, And I'm gonna
reload this again with that in place.
And now if I attempt to RANT while
entering zero characters into that box,
the browser itself gives me
a helpful validation message.
That, hey, this field is required.
You have to do something here
before I can submit this form.
And so
if that's an acceptable user experience,
you can leave it at that without having
to write any custom messaging yourself.
>> So, I was testing it by
putting in a space or two and
it was also stopping me from posting, is
there something that's trailing spaces or?
>> Nope, so I could add a couple
of spaces and mine works.
>> Mine worked originally, but
then when I added the length equals,
I don't know when I went to,
>> If you added the length equals that
might be, well no.
So here what I added was simply
that rant.text is truthy.
>> Right.
>> And I think that was all,
that was even in my solution.
This is something I just thought of,
[LAUGH]
>> I think the solution had the link
thing.
>> Yeah,
if length is greater than zero, but
spaces should still be greater than zero.
>> Yes.
If rant.text if it's truthy, And
its length is greater than
zero which is redundant.
>> So, I had originally tried
it a couple of other ways.
And at that point I was posting
blank texts or blank rants, but now.
>> Now one could argue that,
blank strings probably shouldn't be valid.
You probably don't wanna enter a space and
accept that.
>> I was just wondering if it was being
done behind the scenes somewhere that I
wasn't aware
>> I don't believe so.
But we can we can take a look at the next
break and see what's going on there
>> Is that a trim three,
>> Yeah,
maybe there was a trim in there somewhere.
So the root cause of this bug
was a user form validation.
Client side validation is one
of the most common things that
probably all of our apps need to do.
In order to save on network calls and
to improve the user experience.
We probably want to validate
the user input falls within some
guidelines before we accept it.
We looked at the network inspector.
We looked at all the ways we
can locate network requests and
see information about them.
We looked at how to look
at the response previews.
And we played a little bit more
with the JavaScript debugger.